<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>ವಚನ ಭಾರತ</title>
	<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
	<section class="level1 unnumbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-000d.4">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title">ಮಹಾಭಾರತದ ವ್ಯಾಸಂಗಕ್ಕೆ ಸಹಾಯವಾಗುವ ಗ್ರಂಥಗಳು</h1>
		<ol>
			<li><span class="en">Monier Williams - Indian Wisdom, London 1893</span></li>
			<li><span class="en">A. A. Macdonell - A History of Sanskrit Literature, 1900</span></li>
			<li><span class="en">E. W. Hopkins-</span> 
				<ol>
					<li><span class="en">Religions of India 1896</span></li>
					<li><span class="en">The Great Epic of India, Its Character and Origin, 1901</span></li>
					<li><span class="en">Epic Mythology 1915</span></li>
					<li><span class="en">‘The Princes and People of India’ Chapter XI in Cambridge History of India, Vol. I, pp 251-275; 1922</span></li>
					<li><span class="en">Ethics of India 1924</span></li>
				</ol>
			</li>
			<li><span class="en">C. V. Vaidya -</span> 
				<ol>
					<li><span class="en">The Mahabharata, A Criticism, 1905</span></li>
					<li><span class="en">Epic India as described in the Mahabharata and Ramayana 1933.</span></li>
				</ol>
			</li>
			<li><span class="en">M. Winternitz-</span> 
				<ol>
					<li><span class="en">A History of India Literature, Vol.I 1927 pp 311-475</span></li>
					<li><span class="en">The Serpent Sacrifice mentioned in the Mahabharata (J.B.R.A.S., Aug. 1926)</span></li>
				</ol>
			</li>
			<li><span class="en">M. Krishnamachariar - History of Classical Sanskrit Literature 1937 pp.1-78</span></li>
			<li><span class="en">V. Venkatachalam Iyer - Notes of a study of the preliminary chapters of the Mahabharata being an attempt to separate genuine from spurious matter. 1922.</span> 
				<p>(ಈ ಗ್ರಂಥದ ಲೇಖಕರು ಮಹಾಭಾರತದ ಬೊಂಬಾಯಿ ಮದ್ರಾಸ್​ ಕಲ್ಕತ್ತ ಮುದ್ರಣಗಳನ್ನೂ ಮಹಾಭಾರತದ ಮೊದಲ ಕೆಲವು ಪರ್ವಗಳನ್ನೂ ನನ್ನಯ್ಯ ಭಟ್ಟನ ತೆಲುಗು ಭಾರತವನ್ನೂ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಿ ಮಹಾಭಾರತದಲ್ಲಿ ಮೊದಲಿದ್ದ ಭಾಗವಾವುದು ಆಮೇಲೆ ಸೇರಿದ ಭಾಗಗಳಾವುವು ಎಂದು ವಿಮರ್ಶೆ ಮಾಡಿದ್ದಾರೆ)</p>
			</li>
			<li><span class="en">A. D. Pusalkar - “Twenty five years of Epic and Puranic Studies” in Progress of Indic Studies, 1917-1942”</span> 
				<p>[ಈ ಲೇಖನದಿಂದ ಮಹಾಭಾರತದ ಮೇಲೆ ಈಚೆಗೆ ಪ್ರಕಟವಾದ ಪ್ರಾಯಶಃ ಎಲ್ಲಾ ಗ್ರಂಥಗಳನ್ನೂ ಲೇಖನಗಳನ್ನೂ, ಅವುಗಳ ಸಾರಾಂಶವನ್ನೂ ತಿಳಿಯಬಹುದು.]</p>
			</li>
			<li><span class="en">S. Radhakrishnan-</span> 
				<ol>
					<li><span class="en">Indian Philosophy Vol.I, 1923. Chapter VIII</span></li>
					<li><span class="en">Religion and society, 1947</span></li>
				</ol>
			</li>
			<li><span class="en">S. Sorensen - Index to the names in the Mahabharata, 1904</span></li>
			<li><span class="en">E. P. Rice- The Mahabharata, Analysis and Index, 1934</span></li>
			<li>ಬೆನಗಲ್​ ರಾಮರಾವ್​ ಮತ್ತು ಪಾನ್ಯಂ ಸುಂದರಶಾಸ್ತ್ರಿ - ಪುರಾಣನಾಮಚೂಡಾಮಣಿ, ೧೯೪೧</li>
			<li>ಬಂಕಿಮಚಂದ್ರ - ಶ್ರೀಕೃಷ್ಣಚರಿತ್ರೆ. (ಆರ್.​ ವ್ಯಾಸರಾಯರ ಕನ್ನಡ ಭಾಷಾಂತರ) ೧೯೩೭</li>
			<li>ಮಾಸ್ತಿ ವೆಂಕಟೇಶ ಅಯ್ಯಂಗಾರ್​ - ಭಾರತತೀರ್ಥ, ೧೯೫೨</li>
		</ol>
		<p class="text-center"><strong><span class="en">The Mahābhārata</span></strong></p>
		<p><span class="en">The Mahābhārata describes the great war waged in ancient times between the two branches of the one royal family that of the Bharatas... It conserves in a collected form all the ancient beliefs and traditions of the race...Bharata is the first attempt at effecting a reconciliation between the culture of the Aryans and the mass of fact and faction, history and mythology which it encountered.. Containing within itself productions of different dates and authorships, The Mahābhārata has became a miscellaneous encyclopaedia of history and mythology, politics, law, theology and Philosophy.</span></p>
		<p class="text-right"><strong> <span class="en">- S. Radhakrishnan</span> </strong></p>
	</section>
</body>
</html>
